dev/REFRESHING_CI_CACHE.md, before:

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 distributed with this work for additional information
 regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
 software distributed under the License is distributed on an
 "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
 KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
 specific language governing permissions and limitations
 under the License.
-->

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Automated cache refreshing in CI](#automated-cache-refreshing-in-ci)
- [Manually generating constraint files](#manually-generating-constraint-files)
- [Manually refreshing the images](#manually-refreshing-the-images)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# Automated cache refreshing in CI

Our [CI system](../CI.rst) is build in the way that it self-maintains. Regular scheduled builds and
merges to `main` branch have separate maintenance step that take care about refreshing the cache that is
used to speed up our builds and to speed up rebuilding of [Breeze](../BREEZE.rst) images for development
purpose. This is all happening automatically, usually:

* The latest [constraints](../CONTRIBUTING.rst#pinned-constraint-files) are pushed to appropriate branch
  after all tests succeeded in `main` merge or in `scheduled` build

* The [images](../IMAGES.rst) in `ghcr.io` registry are refreshed after every successful merge to `main`
  or `scheduled` build and after pushing the constraints, this means that the latest image cache uses
  also the latest tested constraints

Sometimes however, when we have prolonged period of fighting with flakiness of GitHub Actions runners or our
tests, the refresh might not be triggered - because tests will not succeed for some time. In this case
manual refresh might be needed.

# Manually generating constraint files

```bash
export CURRENT_PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSIONS_AS_STRING="3.7 3.8 3.9 3.6"
for python_version in $(echo "${CURRENT_PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSIONS_AS_STRING}")
do
  ./breeze build-image --upgrade-to-newer-dependencies --python ${python_version} --build-cache-local
done

GENERATE_CONSTRAINTS_MODE="pypi-providers" ./scripts/ci/constraints/ci_generate_all_constraints.sh
GENERATE_CONSTRAINTS_MODE="source-providers" ./scripts/ci/constraints/ci_generate_all_constraints.sh
GENERATE_CONSTRAINTS_MODE="no-providers" ./scripts/ci/constraints/ci_generate_all_constraints.sh

AIRFLOW_SOURCES=$(pwd)
```

The constraints will be generated in `files/constraints-PYTHON_VERSION/constraints-*.txt` files. You need to
check out the right 'constraints-' branch in a separate repository, and then you can copy, commit and push the
generated files:

```bash
cd <AIRFLOW_WITH_CONSTRAINTS-MAIN_DIRECTORY>
git pull
cp ${AIRFLOW_SOURCES}/files/constraints-*/constraints*.txt .
git diff
git add .
git commit -m "Your commit message here" --no-verify
git push
```

# Manually refreshing the images

The images can be rebuilt and refreshed after the constraints are pushed. Refreshing image for particular
python version is a simple as running the [refresh_images.sh](refresh_images.sh) script with python version
as parameter:

```bash
./dev/refresh_images.sh 3.9
```

If you have fast network and powerful computer, you can refresh the images in parallel running the
[refresh_images.sh](refresh_images.sh) with all python versions. You might do it with `tmux` manually
or with gnu parallel:

```bash
parallel -j 4 --linebuffer --tagstring '{}' ./dev/refresh_images.sh ::: 3.7 3.8 3.9 3.6
```

Commit message:

Switch to 'buildkit' to build Airflow images (#20664)
The "buildkit" is much more modern docker build mechanism and supports
multiarchitecture builds which makes it suitable for our future ARM
support, it also has nicer UI and much more sophisticated caching
mechanisms as well as supports better multi-segment builds.

BuildKit has been promoted to official for quite a while and it is
rather stable now. Also we can now install BuildKit Plugin to docker
that add capabilities of building and managin cache using dedicated
builders (previously BuildKit cache was managed using rather
complex external tools).

This gives us an opportunity to vastly
simplify our build scripts, because it has now much more robust caching
mechanism than the old docker build (which forced us to pull images
before using them as cache).

We had a lot of complexity involved in efficient caching
but with BuildKit all that can be vastly simplified and we can
get rid of:

  * keeping base python images in our registry
  * keeping build segments for prod image in our registry
  * keeping manifest images in our registry
  * deciding when to pull or pull&build image (not needed now, we can
    always build image with --cache-from and buildkit will pull cached
    layers as needed
  * building the image when performing pre-commit (rather than that
    we simply encourage users to rebuild the image via breeze command)
  * pulling the images before building
  * separate 'build' cache kept in our registry (not needed any more
    as buildkit allows to keep cache for all segments of multi-segmented
    build in a single cache
  * the nice animated tty UI of buildkit eliminates the need of manual
    spinner
  * and a number of other complexities.

Depends on #20238

(cherry picked from commit ad28f69f74f4ba5defd6ad71c3d8b67d220c7fc2)

dev/REFRESHING_CI_CACHE.md, after:

<!--
 Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
 or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
 distributed with this work for additional information
 regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
 to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
 "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
 with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
 software distributed under the License is distributed on an
 "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
 KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
 specific language governing permissions and limitations
 under the License.
-->

<!-- START doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->
<!-- DON'T EDIT THIS SECTION, INSTEAD RE-RUN doctoc TO UPDATE -->
**Table of Contents**  *generated with [DocToc](https://github.com/thlorenz/doctoc)*

- [Automated cache refreshing in CI](#automated-cache-refreshing-in-ci)
- [Manually generating constraint files](#manually-generating-constraint-files)
- [Manually refreshing the images](#manually-refreshing-the-images)

<!-- END doctoc generated TOC please keep comment here to allow auto update -->

# Automated cache refreshing in CI

Our [CI system](../CI.rst) is build in the way that it self-maintains. Regular scheduled builds and
merges to `main` branch have separate maintenance step that take care about refreshing the cache that is
used to speed up our builds and to speed up rebuilding of [Breeze](../BREEZE.rst) images for development
purpose. This is all happening automatically, usually:

* The latest [constraints](../CONTRIBUTING.rst#pinned-constraint-files) are pushed to appropriate branch
  after all tests succeeded in `main` merge or in `scheduled` build

* The [images](../IMAGES.rst) in `ghcr.io` registry are refreshed after every successful merge to `main`
  or `scheduled` build and after pushing the constraints, this means that the latest image cache uses
  also the latest tested constraints

Sometimes however, when we have prolonged period of fighting with flakiness of GitHub Actions runners or our
tests, the refresh might not be triggered - because tests will not succeed for some time. In this case
manual refresh might be needed.

# Manually generating constraint files

```bash
export CURRENT_PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSIONS_AS_STRING="3.7 3.8 3.9 3.6"
for python_version in $(echo "${CURRENT_PYTHON_MAJOR_MINOR_VERSIONS_AS_STRING}")
do
  ./breeze build-image --upgrade-to-newer-dependencies --python ${python_version} --build-cache-local
done

GENERATE_CONSTRAINTS_MODE="pypi-providers" ./scripts/ci/constraints/ci_generate_all_constraints.sh
GENERATE_CONSTRAINTS_MODE="source-providers" ./scripts/ci/constraints/ci_generate_all_constraints.sh
GENERATE_CONSTRAINTS_MODE="no-providers" ./scripts/ci/constraints/ci_generate_all_constraints.sh

AIRFLOW_SOURCES=$(pwd)
```

The constraints will be generated in `files/constraints-PYTHON_VERSION/constraints-*.txt` files. You need to
check out the right 'constraints-' branch in a separate repository, and then you can copy, commit and push the
generated files:

```bash
cd <AIRFLOW_WITH_CONSTRAINTS-MAIN_DIRECTORY>
git pull
cp ${AIRFLOW_SOURCES}/files/constraints-*/constraints*.txt .
git diff
git add .
git commit -m "Your commit message here" --no-verify
git push
```

# Manually refreshing the images

Note that in order to refresh images you have to not only have `buildx` command installed for docker,
but you should also make sure that you have the buildkit builder configured and set.

More information can be found [here](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/buildx_create/)

The images can be rebuilt and refreshed after the constraints are pushed. Refreshing image for particular
python version is a simple as running the [refresh_images.sh](refresh_images.sh) script with python version
as parameter:

```bash
./dev/refresh_images.sh 3.9
```

If you have fast network and powerful computer, you can refresh the images in parallel running the
[refresh_images.sh](refresh_images.sh) with all python versions. You might do it with `tmux` manually
or with gnu parallel:

```bash
parallel -j 4 --linebuffer --tagstring '{}' ./dev/refresh_images.sh ::: 3.7 3.8 3.9 3.6
```
